esv_TAM == "MOD should" or niv_TAM == "MOD should"
5 of 5

(x)	וְעַתָּ֡ה אַל־_יָשֵׂם֩_ אֲדֹנִ֨י הַמֶּ֤לֶךְ אֶל־לִבֹּו֙ דָּבָ֣ר לֵאמֹ֔ר כָּל־בְּנֵ֥י הַמֶּ֖לֶךְ מֵ֑תוּ כִּֽי־אִם־אַמְנֹ֥ון לְבַדֹּ֖ו מֵֽת׃ פ (II Sam. 13:33)
NIV	My lord the king should not be concerned about the report that all the king’s sons are dead. Only Amnon is dead.”
ESV	Now therefore let not my lord the king so take it to heart as to suppose that all the king’s sons are dead, for Amnon alone is dead.”

(x)	וְאַל־_תֵּ֤רֶא_ בְיֹום־אָחִ֨יךָ֙ בְּיֹ֣ום נָכְרֹ֔ו וְאַל־תִּשְׂמַ֥ח לִבְנֵֽי־יְהוּדָ֖ה בְּיֹ֣ום אָבְדָ֑ם וְאַל־תַּגְדֵּ֥ל פִּ֖יךָ בְּיֹ֥ום צָרָֽה׃ (Obad. 1:12)
NIV	You should not look down on your brother in the day of his misfortune, nor rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their destruction, nor boast so much in the day of their trouble.
ESV	But do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune. do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. do not boast in the day of distress.

(x)	וְאַל־תֵּ֤רֶא בְיֹום־אָחִ֨יךָ֙ בְּיֹ֣ום נָכְרֹ֔ו וְאַל־תִּשְׂמַ֥ח לִבְנֵֽי־יְהוּדָ֖ה בְּיֹ֣ום אָבְדָ֑ם וְאַל־_תַּגְדֵּ֥ל_ פִּ֖יךָ בְּיֹ֥ום צָרָֽה׃ (Obad. 1:12)
NIV	You should not look down on your brother in the day of his misfortune, nor rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their destruction, nor _boast so much_ in the day of their trouble.
ESV	But do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune. do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. do not boast in the day of distress.

(x)	אַל־תָּבֹ֤וא בְשַֽׁעַר־עַמִּי֙ בְּיֹ֣ום אֵידָ֔ם אַל־_תֵּ֧רֶא_ גַם־אַתָּ֛ה בְּרָעָתֹ֖ו בְּיֹ֣ום אֵידֹ֑ו וְאַל־תִּשְׁלַ֥חְנָה בְחֵילֹ֖ו בְּיֹ֥ום אֵידֹֽו׃ (Obad. 1:13)
NIV	You should not march through the gates of my people in the day of their disaster, nor _look down_ on them in their calamity in the day of their disaster, nor seize their wealth in the day of their disaster.
ESV	Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. do not gloat over his disaster in the day of his calamity. do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity.

(x)	וְאַֽל־תַּעֲמֹד֙ עַל־הַפֶּ֔רֶק לְהַכְרִ֖ית אֶת־פְּלִיטָ֑יו וְאַל־_תַּסְגֵּ֥ר_ שְׂרִידָ֖יו בְּיֹ֥ום צָרָֽה׃ (Obad. 1:14)
NIV	You should not wait at the crossroads to cut down their fugitives, nor _hand over_ their survivors in the day of their trouble.
ESV	Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives. do not hand over his survivors in the day of distress.
