niv_TAMsimp == "IMPV"
7 of 7

(x)	וְ_נָק֥וּמָה_ וְנַעֲלֶ֖ה בֵּֽית־אֵ֑ל וְאֶֽעֱשֶׂה־שָּׁ֣ם מִזְבֵּ֗חַ לָאֵ֞ל הָעֹנֶ֤ה אֹתִי֙ בְּיֹ֣ום צָֽרָתִ֔י וַיְהִי֙ עִמָּדִ֔י בַּדֶּ֖רֶךְ אֲשֶׁ֥ר הָלָֽכְתִּי׃ (Gen. 35:3)
NIV	Then _come_, let us go up to Bethel, where I will build an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my distress and who has been with me wherever I have gone.”
ESV	Then _let us arise_ and go up to Bethel, so that I may make there an altar to the God who answers me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I have gone.”

(x)	וַיִּשְׁלַ֣ח יִשְׂרָאֵ֣ל מַלְאָכִ֣ים׀ אֶל־מֶלֶךְ֩ אֱדֹ֨ום׀ לֵאמֹ֜ר _אֶעְבְּרָה_־נָּ֣א בְאַרְצֶ֗ךָ וְלֹ֤א שָׁמַע֙ מֶ֣לֶךְ אֱדֹ֔ום וְגַ֨ם אֶל־מֶ֧לֶךְ מֹואָ֛ב שָׁלַ֖ח וְלֹ֣א אָבָ֑ה וַיֵּ֥שֶׁב יִשְׂרָאֵ֖ל בְּקָדֵֽשׁ׃ (Judg. 11:17)
NIV	Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, ‘_Give us permission to go_ through your country,’ but the king of Edom would not listen. They sent also to the king of Moab, and he refused. So Israel stayed at Kadesh.
ESV	Israel then sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, ‘Please _let us pass_ through your land,’ but the king of Edom would not listen. And they sent also to the king of Moab, but he would not consent. So Israel remained at Kadesh.

(x)	וַיֹּ֧אמֶר דָּוִ֛ד אֶל־גָּ֖ד צַר־לִ֣י מְאֹ֑ד נִפְּלָה־נָּ֤א בְיַד־יְהוָה֙ כִּֽי־רַבִּ֣ים רַֽחֲמָ֔יו וּבְיַד־אָדָ֖ם אַל־_אֶפֹּֽלָה_׃ (II Sam. 24:14)
NIV	David said to Gad, “I am in deep distress. Let us fall into the hands of the LORD, for his mercy is great. but do not let me fall into the hands of men.”
ESV	Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let us fall into the hand of the Lord, for his mercy is great. but let me not fall into the hand of man.”

(x)	וַיִּקְרְא֨וּ אֶל־יְהוָ֜ה וַיֹּאמְר֗וּ אָנָּ֤ה יְהוָה֙ אַל־נָ֣א _נֹאבְדָ֗ה_ בְּנֶ֨פֶשׁ֙ הָאִ֣ישׁ הַזֶּ֔ה וְאַל־תִּתֵּ֥ן עָלֵ֖ינוּ דָּ֣ם נָקִ֑יא כִּֽי־אַתָּ֣ה יְהוָ֔ה כַּאֲשֶׁ֥ר חָפַ֖צְתָּ עָשִֽׂיתָ׃ (Jonah 1:14)
NIV	Then they cried to the LORD, “O LORD, please do not let us die for taking this man’s life. Do not hold us accountable for killing an innocent man, for you, O LORD, have done as you pleased.”
ESV	Therefore they called out to the Lord, “O Lord, let us not perish for this man’s life, and lay not on us innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you.”

(x)	אֱֽלֹהַ֗י בְּךָ֣ בָ֭טַחְתִּי אַל־_אֵבֹ֑ושָׁה_ אַל־יַֽעַלְצ֖וּ אֹיְבַ֣י לִֽי׃ (Psa. 25:2)
NIV	in you I trust, O my God. Do not let me be put to shame, nor let my enemies triumph over me.
ESV	O my God, in you I trust. let me not be put to shame. let not my enemies exult over me.

(x)	הַצִּילֵ֣נִי מִ֭טִּיט וְאַל־_אֶטְבָּ֑עָה_ אִנָּצְלָ֥ה מִ֝שֹּֽׂנְאַ֗י וּמִמַּֽעֲמַקֵּי־מָֽיִם׃ (Psa. 69:15)
NIV	Rescue me from the mire, do not let me sink. deliver me from those who hate me, from the deep waters.
ESV	Deliver me from _sinking_ in the mire. let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters.

(x)	הַצִּילֵ֣נִי מִ֭טִּיט וְאַל־אֶטְבָּ֑עָה _אִנָּצְלָ֥ה_ מִ֝שֹּֽׂנְאַ֗י וּמִמַּֽעֲמַקֵּי־מָֽיִם׃ (Psa. 69:15)
NIV	Rescue me from the mire, do not let me sink. _deliver_ me from those who hate me, from the deep waters.
ESV	Deliver me from sinking in the mire. _let me be delivered_ from my enemies and from the deep waters.
