eng_TAMsimp == "PRES PERF" and lex == "נתן"
13 of 13

(x)	וַיהוָ֞ה בֵּרַ֧ךְ אֶת־אֲדֹנִ֛י מְאֹ֖ד וַיִּגְדָּ֑ל וַ_יִּתֶּן_־לֹ֞ו צֹ֤אן וּבָקָר֙ וְכֶ֣סֶף וְזָהָ֔ב וַעֲבָדִם֙ וּשְׁפָחֹ֔ת וּגְמַלִּ֖ים וַחֲמֹרִֽים׃ (Gen. 24:35)
NIV	The LORD has blessed my master abundantly, and he has become wealthy. _He has given_ him sheep and cattle, silver and gold, menservants and maidservants, and camels and donkeys.
ESV	The Lord has greatly blessed my master, and he has become great. _He has given_ him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male servants and female servants, camels and donkeys.

(x)	וַתֵּ֡לֶד שָׂרָה֩ אֵ֨שֶׁת אֲדֹנִ֥י בֵן֙ לַֽאדֹנִ֔י אַחֲרֵ֖י זִקְנָתָ֑הּ וַ_יִּתֶּן_־לֹּ֖ו אֶת־כָּל־אֲשֶׁר־לֹֽו׃ (Gen. 24:36)
NIV	My master’s wife Sarah has borne him a son in her old age, and _he has given_ him everything he owns.
ESV	And Sarah my master’s wife bore a son to my master when she was old, and to him _he has given_ all that he has.

(x)	כִּי֩ אֶת־חֲזֵ֨ה הַתְּנוּפָ֜ה וְאֵ֣ת׀ שֹׁ֣וק הַתְּרוּמָ֗ה לָקַ֨חְתִּי֙ מֵאֵ֣ת בְּנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֔ל מִזִּבְחֵ֖י שַׁלְמֵיהֶ֑ם וָ_אֶתֵּ֣ן_ אֹ֠תָם לְאַהֲרֹ֨ן הַכֹּהֵ֤ן וּלְבָנָיו֙ לְחָק־עֹולָ֔ם מֵאֵ֖ת בְּנֵ֥י יִשְׂרָאֵֽל׃ (Lev. 7:34)
NIV	From the fellowship offerings of the Israelites, I have taken the breast that is waved and the thigh that is presented and _have given_ them to Aaron the priest and his sons as their regular share from the Israelites.’”
ESV	For the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed I have taken from the people of Israel, out of the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and _have given_ them to Aaron the priest and to his sons, as a perpetual due from the people of Israel.

(x)	וָ_אֶתְּנָ֨ה_ אֶת־הַלְוִיִּ֜ם נְתֻנִ֣ים׀ לְאַהֲרֹ֣ן וּלְבָנָ֗יו מִתֹּוךְ֮ בְּנֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵל֒ לַעֲבֹ֞ד אֶת־עֲבֹדַ֤ת בְּנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵל֙ בְּאֹ֣הֶל מֹועֵ֔ד וּלְכַפֵּ֖ר עַל־בְּנֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵ֑ל וְלֹ֨א יִהְיֶ֜ה בִּבְנֵ֤י יִשְׂרָאֵל֙ נֶ֔גֶף בְּגֶ֥שֶׁת בְּנֵֽי־יִשְׂרָאֵ֖ל אֶל־הַקֹּֽדֶשׁ׃ (Num. 8:19)
NIV	Of all the Israelites, _I have given_ the Levites as gifts to Aaron and his sons to do the work at the Tent of Meeting on behalf of the Israelites and to make atonement for them so that no plague will strike the Israelites when they go near the sanctuary.”
ESV	And _I have given_ the Levites as a gift to Aaron and his sons from among the people of Israel, to do the service for the people of Israel at the tent of meeting and to make atonement for the people of Israel, that there may be no plague among the people of Israel when the people of Israel come near the sanctuary.”

(x)	אֶל־הַנַּ֥עַר הַזֶּ֖ה הִתְפַּלָּ֑לְתִּי וַ_יִּתֵּ֨ן_ יְהוָ֥ה לִי֙ אֶת־שְׁאֵ֣לָתִ֔י אֲשֶׁ֥ר שָׁאַ֖לְתִּי מֵעִמֹּֽו׃ (I Sam. 1:27)
NIV	I prayed for this child, and the LORD _has granted_ me what I asked of him.
ESV	For this child I prayed, and the Lord _has granted_ me my petition that I made to him.

(x)	וַ֠יָּבִאוּ אֶת־רֹ֨אשׁ אִֽישׁ־בֹּ֥שֶׁת אֶל־דָּוִד֮ חֶבְרֹון֒ וַיֹּֽאמְרוּ֙ אֶל־הַמֶּ֔לֶךְ הִנֵּֽה־רֹ֣אשׁ אִֽישׁ־בֹּ֗שֶׁת בֶּן־שָׁאוּל֙ אֹֽיִבְךָ֔ אֲשֶׁ֥ר בִּקֵּ֖שׁ אֶת־נַפְשֶׁ֑ךָ וַ_יִּתֵּ֣ן_ יְ֠הוָה לַֽאדֹנִ֨י הַמֶּ֤לֶךְ נְקָמֹות֙ הַיֹּ֣ום הַזֶּ֔ה מִשָּׁא֖וּל וּמִזַּרְעֹֽו׃ ס (II Sam. 4:8)
NIV	They brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, “Here is the head of Ish-bosheth son of Saul, your enemy, who tried to take your life. This day the LORD _has avenged_ my lord the king against Saul and his offspring.”
ESV	and brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron. And they said to the king, “Here is the head of Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life. The Lord _has avenged_ my lord the king this day on Saul and on his offspring.”

(x)	הֵשִׁיב֩ עָלֶ֨יךָ יְהוָ֜ה כֹּ֣ל׀ דְּמֵ֣י בֵית־שָׁא֗וּל אֲשֶׁ֤ר מָלַ֨כְתָּ֙ תַּחְתָּ֔יו וַ_יִּתֵּ֤ן_ יְהוָה֙ אֶת־הַמְּלוּכָ֔ה בְּיַ֖ד אַבְשָׁלֹ֣ום בְּנֶ֑ךָ וְהִנְּךָ֙ בְּרָ֣עָתֶ֔ךָ כִּ֛י אִ֥ישׁ דָּמִ֖ים אָֽתָּה׃ (II Sam. 16:8)
NIV	The LORD has repaid you for all the blood you shed in the household of Saul, in whose place you have reigned. The LORD has handed the kingdom over to your son Absalom. You have come to ruin because you are a man of blood!”
ESV	The Lord has avenged on you all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned, and the Lord _has given_ the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. See, your evil is on you, for you are a man of blood.”

(x)	וַיֹּ֣אמֶר שְׁלֹמֹ֗ה אַתָּ֨ה עָשִׂ֜יתָ עִם־עַבְדְּךָ֙ דָוִ֣ד אָבִי֮ חֶ֣סֶד גָּדֹול֒ כַּאֲשֶׁר֩ הָלַ֨ךְ לְפָנֶ֜יךָ בֶּאֱמֶ֧ת וּבִצְדָקָ֛ה וּבְיִשְׁרַ֥ת לֵבָ֖ב עִמָּ֑ךְ וַתִּשְׁמָר־לֹ֗ו אֶת־הַחֶ֤סֶד הַגָּדֹול֙ הַזֶּ֔ה וַ_תִּתֶּן_־לֹ֥ו בֵ֛ן יֹשֵׁ֥ב עַל־כִּסְאֹ֖ו כַּיֹּ֥ום הַזֶּֽה׃ (I Kgs. 3:6)
NIV	Solomon answered, “You have shown great kindness to your servant, my father David, because he was faithful to you and righteous and upright in heart. You have continued this great kindness to him and _have given_ him a son to sit on his throne this very day.
ESV	And Solomon said, “You have shown great and steadfast love to your servant David my father, because he walked before you in faithfulness, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart toward you. And you have kept for him this great and steadfast love and _have given_ him a son to sit on his throne this day.

(x)	וַיִּשְׁמַ֣ע הַנָּבִיא֮ אֲשֶׁ֣ר הֱשִׁיבֹ֣ו מִן־הַדֶּרֶךְ֒ וַיֹּ֨אמֶר֙ אִ֣ישׁ הָאֱלֹהִ֣ים ה֔וּא אֲשֶׁ֥ר מָרָ֖ה אֶת־פִּ֣י יְהוָ֑ה וַ_יִּתְּנֵ֨הוּ_ יְהוָ֜ה לָאַרְיֵ֗ה וַֽיִּשְׁבְּרֵ֨הוּ֙ וַיְמִתֵ֔הוּ כִּדְבַ֥ר יְהוָ֖ה אֲשֶׁ֥ר דִּבֶּר־לֹֽו׃ (I Kgs. 13:26)
NIV	When the prophet who had brought him back from his journey heard of it, he said, “It is the man of God who defied the word of the LORD. The LORD has given him over to the lion, which has mauled him and killed him, as the word of the LORD had warned him.”
ESV	And when the prophet who had brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, “It is the man of God who disobeyed the word of the Lord. therefore the Lord _has given_ him to the lion, which has torn him and killed him, according to the word that the Lord spoke to him.”

(x)	וַיָּבֹ֞א שָׁפָ֤ן הַסֹּפֵר֙ אֶל־הַמֶּ֔לֶךְ וַיָּ֥שֶׁב אֶת־הַמֶּ֖לֶךְ דָּבָ֑ר וַיֹּ֗אמֶר הִתִּ֤יכוּ עֲבָדֶ֨יךָ֙ אֶת־הַכֶּ֨סֶף֙ הַנִּמְצָ֣א בַבַּ֔יִת וַֽ_יִּתְּנֻ֗הוּ_ עַל־יַד֙ עֹשֵׂ֣י הַמְּלָאכָ֔ה הַמֻּפְקָדִ֖ים בֵּ֥ית יְהוָֽה׃ (II Kgs. 22:9)
NIV	Then Shaphan the secretary went to the king and reported to him: “Your officials have paid out the money that was in the temple of the LORD and _have entrusted_ it to the workers and supervisors at the temple.”
ESV	And Shaphan the secretary came to the king, and reported to the king, “Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house and _have delivered_ it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord.”

(x)	יְהִ֨י יְהוָ֤ה אֱלֹהֶ֨יךָ֙ בָּר֔וּךְ אֲשֶׁ֣ר׀ חָפֵ֣ץ בְּךָ֗ לְתִתְּךָ֤ עַל־כִּסְאֹו֙ לְמֶ֔לֶךְ לַיהוָ֖ה אֱלֹהֶ֑יךָ בְּאַהֲבַ֨ת אֱלֹהֶ֤יךָ אֶת־יִשְׂרָאֵל֙ לְהַעֲמִידֹ֣ו לְעֹולָ֔ם וַ_יִּתֶּנְךָ֤_ עֲלֵיהֶם֙ לְמֶ֔לֶךְ לַעֲשֹׂ֖ות מִשְׁפָּ֥ט וּצְדָקָֽה׃ (II Chr. 9:8)
NIV	Praise be to the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and placed you on his throne as king to rule for the LORD your God. Because of the love of your God for Israel and his desire to uphold them forever, _he has made_ you king over them, to maintain justice and righteousness.”
ESV	Blessed be the Lord your God, who has delighted in you and set you on his throne as king for the Lord your God! Because your God loved Israel and would establish them forever, _he has made_ you king over them, that you may execute justice and righteousness.”

(x)	וַיְהִי֙ קֶ֣צֶף יְהוָ֔ה עַל־יְהוּדָ֖ה וִירוּשָׁלִָ֑ם וַ_יִּתְּנֵ֤ם_ לְזַֽעֲוָה֙ לְשַׁמָּ֣ה וְלִשְׁרֵקָ֔ה כַּאֲשֶׁ֛ר אַתֶּ֥ם רֹאִ֖ים בְּעֵינֵיכֶֽם׃ (II Chr. 29:8)
NIV	Therefore, the anger of the LORD has fallen on Judah and Jerusalem. _he has made_ them an object of dread and horror and scorn, as you can see with your own eyes.
ESV	Therefore the wrath of the Lord came on Judah and Jerusalem, and _he has made_ them an object of horror, of astonishment, and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes.

(x)	וַיַּתִּ֕יכוּ אֶת־הַכֶּ֖סֶף הַנִּמְצָ֣א בְּבֵית־יְהוָ֑ה וַֽ_יִּתְּנ֗וּהוּ_ עַל־יַד֙ הַמֻּפְקָדִ֔ים וְעַל־יַ֖ד עֹושֵׂ֥י הַמְּלָאכָֽה׃ (II Chr. 34:17)
NIV	They have paid out the money that was in the temple of the LORD and _have entrusted_ it to the supervisors and workers.”
ESV	They have emptied out the money that was found in the house of the Lord and _have given_ it into the hand of the overseers and the workmen.”
