genre == "prophetic" and eng_TAMsimp == "FUT"
15 of 85

(x)	וּבְפָרִשְׂכֶ֣ם כַּפֵּיכֶ֗ם אַעְלִ֤ים עֵינַי֙ מִכֶּ֔ם גַּ֛ם כִּֽי־תַרְבּ֥וּ תְפִלָּ֖ה אֵינֶ֣נִּי _שֹׁמֵ֑עַ_ יְדֵיכֶ֖ם דָּמִ֥ים מָלֵֽאוּ׃ (Isa. 1:15)
NIV	When you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. even if you offer many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood.
ESV	When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. your hands are full of blood.

(x)	כִּ֣י לֹ֤א בְחִפָּזֹון֙ תֵּצֵ֔אוּ וּבִמְנוּסָ֖ה לֹ֣א תֵלֵכ֑וּן כִּֽי־_הֹלֵ֤ךְ_ לִפְנֵיכֶם֙ יְהוָ֔ה וּמְאַסִּפְכֶ֖ם אֱלֹהֵ֥י יִשְׂרָאֵֽל׃ ס (Isa. 52:12)
NIV	But you will not leave in haste or go in flight. for the LORD _will go_ before you, the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
ESV	For you shall not go out in haste, and you shall not go in flight, for the Lord _will go_ before you, and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.

(x)	וְאַתָּ֞ה אַל־תִּתְפַּלֵּ֣ל׀ בְּעַד־הָעָ֣ם הַזֶּ֗ה וְאַל־תִּשָּׂ֧א בַעֲדָ֛ם רִנָּ֥ה וּתְפִלָּ֖ה וְאַל־תִּפְגַּע־בִּ֑י כִּי־אֵינֶ֥נִּי _שֹׁמֵ֖עַ_ אֹתָֽךְ׃ (Jer. 7:16)
NIV	“So do not pray for this people nor offer any plea or petition for them. do not plead with me, for I will not listen to you.
ESV	“As for you, do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer for them, and do not intercede with me, for I will not hear you.

(x)	כִּ֣י יָצֻ֗מוּ אֵינֶ֤נִּי _שֹׁמֵ֨עַ֙_ אֶל־רִנָּתָ֔ם וְכִ֧י יַעֲל֛וּ עֹלָ֥ה וּמִנְחָ֖ה אֵינֶ֣נִּי רֹצָ֑ם כִּ֗י בַּחֶ֨רֶב֙ וּבָרָעָ֣ב וּבַדֶּ֔בֶר אָנֹכִ֖י מְכַלֶּ֥ה אֹותָֽם׃ ס (Jer. 14:12)
NIV	Although they fast, I will not listen to their cry. though they offer burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. Instead, I will destroy them with the sword, famine and plague.”
ESV	Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, and though they offer burnt offering and grain offering, I will not accept them. But I will consume them by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.”

(x)	לָ֠כֵן כֹּֽה־אָמַ֨ר יְהוָ֜ה אֱלֹהֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵ֗ל עַֽל־הָרֹעִים֮ הָרֹעִ֣ים אֶת־עַמִּי֒ אַתֶּ֞ם הֲפִצֹתֶ֤ם אֶת־צֹאנִי֙ וַתַּדִּח֔וּם וְלֹ֥א פְקַדְתֶּ֖ם אֹתָ֑ם הִנְנִ֨י _פֹקֵ֧ד_ עֲלֵיכֶ֛ם אֶת־רֹ֥עַ מַעַלְלֵיכֶ֖ם נְאֻם־יְהוָֽה׃ (Jer. 23:2)
NIV	Therefore this is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says to the shepherds who tend my people: “Because you have scattered my flock and driven them away and have not bestowed care on them, I _will bestow punishment_ on you for the evil you have done,” declares the LORD.
ESV	Therefore thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning the shepherds who care for my people: “You have scattered my flock and have driven them away, and you have not attended to them. Behold, I _will attend_ to you for your evil deeds, declares the Lord.

(x)	וְאֶת־יְכָנְיָ֣ה בֶן־יְהֹויָקִ֣ים מֶֽלֶךְ־יְ֠הוּדָה וְאֶת־כָּל־גָּל֨וּת יְהוּדָ֜ה הַבָּאִ֣ים בָּבֶ֗לָה אֲנִ֥י _מֵשִׁ֛יב_ אֶל־הַמָּקֹ֥ום הַזֶּ֖ה נְאֻם־יְהוָ֑ה כִּ֣י אֶשְׁבֹּ֔ר אֶת־עֹ֖ל מֶ֥לֶךְ בָּבֶֽל׃ (Jer. 28:4)
NIV	I will also bring back to this place Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim king of Judah and all the other exiles from Judah who went to Babylon,’ declares the LORD, ‘for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’”
ESV	I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the exiles from Judah who went to Babylon, declares the Lord, for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.”

(x)	הִנְנִי֩ _מֵבִ֨יא_ אֹותָ֜ם מֵאֶ֣רֶץ צָפֹ֗ון וְקִבַּצְתִּים֮ מִיַּרְכְּתֵי־אָרֶץ֒ בָּ֚ם עִוֵּ֣ר וּפִסֵּ֔חַ הָרָ֥ה וְיֹלֶ֖דֶת יַחְדָּ֑ו קָהָ֥ל גָּדֹ֖ול יָשׁ֥וּבוּ הֵֽנָּה׃ (Jer. 31:8)
NIV	See, I _will bring_ them from the land of the north and gather them from the ends of the earth. Among them will be the blind and the lame, expectant mothers and women in labour. a great throng will return.
ESV	Behold, I _will bring_ them from the north country and gather them from the farthest parts of the earth, among them the blind and the lame, the pregnant woman and she who is in labor, together. a great company, they shall return here.

(x)	וְאָמַרְתָּ֣ אֲלֵיהֶ֡ם כֹּֽה־אָמַר֩ יְהוָ֨ה צְבָאֹ֜ות אֱלֹהֵ֣י יִשְׂרָאֵ֗ל הִנְנִ֤י _שֹׁלֵ֨חַ֙_ וְ֠לָקַחְתִּי אֶת־נְבוּכַדְרֶאצַּ֤ר מֶֽלֶךְ־בָּבֶל֙ עַבְדִּ֔י וְשַׂמְתִּ֣י כִסְאֹ֔ו מִמַּ֛עַל לָאֲבָנִ֥ים הָאֵ֖לֶּה אֲשֶׁ֣ר טָמָ֑נְתִּי וְנָטָ֥ה אֶת־שַׁפְרִירֹ֖ו עֲלֵיהֶֽם׃ (Jer. 43:10)
NIV	Then say to them, ‘This is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says: I _will send for_ my servant Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and I will set his throne over these stones I have buried here. he will spread his royal canopy above them.
ESV	and say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I _will send_ and take Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will set his throne above these stones that I have hidden, and he will spread his royal canopy over them.

(x)	כֹּ֚ה אָמַ֣ר יְהוָ֔ה הִנְנִי֙ _מֵעִ֣יר_ עַל־בָּבֶ֔ל וְאֶל־יֹשְׁבֵ֖י לֵ֣ב קָמָ֑י ר֖וּחַ מַשְׁחִֽית׃ (Jer. 51:1)
NIV	This is what the LORD says: “See, I _will stir up_ the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon and the people of Leb Kamai.
ESV	Thus says the Lord: “Behold, I _will stir up_ the spirit of a destroyer against Babylon, against the inhabitants of Leb-kamai,

(x)	וְהִנֵּ֨ה נֹֽותְרָה־בָּ֜הּ פְּלֵטָ֗ה הַֽ_מּוּצָאִים֮_ בָּנִ֣ים וּבָנֹות֒ הִנָּם֙ יֹוצְאִ֣ים אֲלֵיכֶ֔ם וּרְאִיתֶ֥ם אֶת־דַּרְכָּ֖ם וְאֶת־עֲלִֽילֹותָ֑ם וְנִחַמְתֶּ֗ם עַל־הָֽרָעָה֙ אֲשֶׁ֤ר הֵבֵ֨אתִי֙ עַל־יְר֣וּשָׁלִַ֔ם אֵ֛ת כָּל־אֲשֶׁ֥ר הֵבֵ֖אתִי עָלֶֽיהָ׃ (Ezek. 14:22)
NIV	Yet there will be some survivors — sons and daughters _who will be brought out_ of it. They will come to you, and when you see their conduct and their actions, you will be consoled regarding the disaster I have brought upon Jerusalem — every disaster I have brought upon it.
ESV	But behold, some survivors will be left in it, sons and daughters _who will be brought out_. behold, when they come out to you, and you see their ways and their deeds, you will be consoled for the disaster that I have brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.

(x)	לָכֵן֩ הִנְנִ֨י _פֹתֵ֜חַ_ אֶת־כֶּ֤תֶף מֹואָב֙ מֵהֶ֣עָרִ֔ים מֵֽעָרָ֖יו מִקָּצֵ֑הוּ צְבִ֗י אֶ֚רֶץ בֵּ֣ית הַיְשִׁימֹ֔ת בַּ֥עַל מְעֹ֖ון וְקִרְיָתָֽיְמָה׃ (Ezek. 25:9)
NIV	therefore I _will expose_ the flank of Moab, beginning at its frontier towns — Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon and Kiriathaim — the glory of that land.
ESV	therefore I _will lay open_ the flank of Moab from the cities, from its cities on its frontier, the glory of the country, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim.

(x)	הִנֵּ֛ה אָנֹכִ֥י _מֵעִ֖יק_ תַּחְתֵּיכֶ֑ם כַּאֲשֶׁ֤ר תָּעִיק֙ הָעֲגָלָ֔ה הַֽמְלֵאָ֥ה לָ֖הּ עָמִֽיר׃ (Amos 2:13)
NIV	“Now then, I _will crush_ you as a cart crushes when loaded with grain.
ESV	“Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down.

(x)	_אָסֵ֨ף_ אָדָ֜ם וּבְהֵמָ֗ה אָסֵ֤ף עֹוף־הַשָּׁמַ֨יִם֙ וּדְגֵ֣י הַיָּ֔ם וְהַמַּכְשֵׁלֹ֖ות אֶת־הָרְשָׁעִ֑ים וְהִכְרַתִּ֣י אֶת־הָאָדָ֗ם מֵעַ֛ל פְּנֵ֥י הָאֲדָמָ֖ה נְאֻם־יְהוָֽה׃ (Zeph. 1:3)
NIV	“_I will sweep away_ both men and animals. _I will sweep away_ the birds of the air and the fish of the sea. The wicked will have only heaps of rubble when I cut off man from the face of the earth,” declares the LORD.
ESV	“_I will sweep away_ man and beast. _I will sweep away_ the birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, and the rubble with the wicked. I will cut off mankind from the face of the earth,” declares the Lord.

(x)	כִּ֣י׀ הִנֵּ֣ה הָאֶ֗בֶן אֲשֶׁ֤ר נָתַ֨תִּי֙ לִפְנֵ֣י יְהֹושֻׁ֔עַ עַל־אֶ֥בֶן אַחַ֖ת שִׁבְעָ֣ה עֵינָ֑יִם הִנְנִ֧י _מְפַתֵּ֣חַ_ פִּתֻּחָ֗הּ נְאֻם֙ יְהוָ֣ה צְבָאֹ֔ות וּמַשְׁתִּ֛י אֶת־עֲוֹ֥ן הָאָֽרֶץ־הַהִ֖יא בְּיֹ֥ום אֶחָֽד׃ (Zech. 3:9)
NIV	See, the stone I have set in front of Joshua! There are seven eyes on that one stone, and I _will engrave_ an inscription on it,’ says the LORD Almighty, ‘and I will remove the sin of this land in a single day.
ESV	For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I _will engrave_ its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.

(x)	הִנֵּ֤ה אָֽנֹכִי֙ _שֹׁלֵ֣חַ_ לָכֶ֔ם אֵ֖ת אֵלִיָּ֣ה הַנָּבִ֑יא לִפְנֵ֗י בֹּ֚וא יֹ֣ום יְהוָ֔ה הַגָּדֹ֖ול וְהַנֹּורָֽא׃ (Mal. 3:23)
NIV	“See, I _will send_ you the prophet Elijah before that great and dreadful day of the LORD comes.
ESV	“Behold, I _will send_ you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes.
