eng_TAMsimp == "PRES PERF PROG"
3 of 3

(x)	כִּ֣י לֹ֤א יָשַׁ֨בְתִּי֙ בְּבַ֔יִת לְ֠מִיֹּום הַעֲלֹתִ֞י אֶת־בְּנֵ֤י יִשְׂרָאֵל֙ מִמִּצְרַ֔יִם וְעַ֖ד הַיֹּ֣ום הַזֶּ֑ה וָאֶֽהְיֶה֙ _מִתְהַלֵּ֔ךְ_ בְּאֹ֖הֶל וּבְמִשְׁכָּֽן׃ (II Sam. 7:6)
NIV	I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been _moving_ from place to place with a tent as my dwelling.
ESV	I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day, but I have been _moving about_ in a tent for my dwelling.

(x)	וּ֠בְצֵאתָם אֶל־הֶחָצֵ֨ר הַחִיצֹונָ֜ה אֶל־הֶחָצֵ֣ר הַחִיצֹונָה֮ אֶל־הָעָם֒ יִפְשְׁט֣וּ אֶת־בִּגְדֵיהֶ֗ם אֲשֶׁר־הֵ֨מָּה֙ _מְשָׁרְתִ֣ם_ בָּ֔ם וְהִנִּ֥יחוּ אֹותָ֖ם בְּלִֽשְׁכֹ֣ת הַקֹּ֑דֶשׁ וְלָֽבְשׁוּ֙ בְּגָדִ֣ים אֲחֵרִ֔ים וְלֹֽא־יְקַדְּשׁ֥וּ אֶת־הָעָ֖ם בְּבִגְדֵיהֶֽם׃ (Ezek. 44:19)
NIV	When they go out into the outer court where the people are, they are to take off the clothes they _have been ministering_ in and leave them in the sacred rooms, and put on other clothes, so that they do not consecrate the people by means of their garments.
ESV	And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they _have been ministering_ and lay them in the holy chambers. And they shall put on other garments, lest they transmit holiness to the people with their garments.

(x)	וַיִּגְּשׁ֨וּ אֶל־זְרֻבָּבֶ֜ל וְאֶל־רָאשֵׁ֣י הָֽאָבֹ֗ות וַיֹּאמְר֤וּ לָהֶם֙ נִבְנֶ֣ה עִמָּכֶ֔ם כִּ֣י כָכֶ֔ם נִדְרֹ֖ושׁ לֵֽאלֹהֵיכֶ֑ם וְלֹ֣ו ׀ אֲנַ֣חְנוּ _זֹבְחִ֗ים_ מִימֵי֙ אֵסַ֤ר חַדֹּן֙ מֶ֣לֶךְ אַשּׁ֔וּר הַמַּעֲלֶ֥ה אֹתָ֖נוּ פֹּֽה׃ (Ezra 4:2)
NIV	they came to Zerubbabel and to the heads of the families and said, “Let us help you build because, like you, we seek your God and _have been sacrificing_ to him since the time of Esarhaddon king of Assyria, who brought us here.”
ESV	they approached Zerubbabel and the heads of fathers’ houses and said to them, “Let us build with you, for we worship your God as you do, and we _have been sacrificing_ to him ever since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assyria who brought us here.”
